PPC0033: method-like calls to lexical subs (#68)
Perl/PPCs: ppcs/ppc0033-ampersand-method-calls.md

# Allow calling subs using method-like syntax

## Preamble

    Author:  Graham Knop <haarg@haarg.org>
    ID:      0033
    Status:  Draft

## Abstract

Add a syntax for calling lexical methods that is similar to the existing
method syntax, rather than needing to call them like subs. The new syntax
`$object->&method(@args)` would be equivalent to sub call to `method`, but
using a syntax closer to method calls.

## Motivation

When using a lexical sub inside an object class, the subs must be called as
`method($object, @args)`. This works, but for many people, this feels wrong
as a way to call something thought of as a private method. This has resulted
in some people using syntax like `$object->${\&method}(@args)`, or continuing

> to use code refs stored in a lexical variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to use code refs stored in a lexical variable (`$object->$method(@args)`).
```

Author: Added.

## Specification

`$object->&method(@args)` would behave exactly the same as `&method($object,
@args)`. `method` would be searched for in the current lexical scope. If not
found, it would be looked up in the current package. If still not found, the
current package's `AUTOLOAD` would be called. If `AUTOLOAD` does not exist, an
error would be issued. The call would ignore prototypes, just as traditional
method calls and `&subroutine()` calls do.

## Backwards Compatibility

The syntax `->&word` is currently a syntax error, so no backwards
compatibility issues are forseen.

## Security Implications

As this is purely a syntax feature that is currently a syntax error, no
security implications are forseen.

## Examples

```perl
use v5.36;

package Foo {
    sub new ($class) {
        return bless {
            field => 5,
        }, $class;
    }

    my sub private ($self) {
        return $self->{field};
    }

    sub _old_school_private ($self) {
        return $self->{field};
    }

    sub public ($self) {

        # call via lexical method is allowed
        say "my field: " . $self->&private;
        # exactly equivalent to:
        say "my field: " . private($self);

>         # can also be used to call package methods. But won't lookup via @ISA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # can also be used to call package methods. But won't look up via @ISA
```

Author: Changed.

        say "my field: " . $self->&_old_school_private;
        # exactly equivalent to:
        say "my field: " . _old_school_private($self);
    }
}

my $foo = Foo->new;
$foo->public;

# this is an error, as there is no sub named private in scope
$foo->&private;
```

## Prototype Implementation

> None currently.

Reviewer 2: There's my entire CPAN module which experiments with this very syntax idea (though it does so in a kinda hacky way):

https://metacpan.org/pod/Object::Pad::LexicalMethods

Author: Added a link to this section.
